---
title: "{full name} - The Open Source Contributor"
...

## Background

{name} is a 31 year old developer who does database administration for a living, and contributes to open-source software development in both xyr professional and personal time. {name} started contributing to open-source software when xey found and fixed a bug in the open-source database software xey uses at work. Over time, as xey continued to find and fix bugs and add features that xey needed at work xey became a core member of the project. Xey has also contributed code to a variety of other international software projects that ask for help. {name} participates in a variety of international technology focused list-servs, IRC chatrooms, and forums in xyr professional capacity and under xyr real name.

## Motivations

{name} has become increasingly worried about the level of corruption in xyr government. Xey has also watched suppression of free speech and the media increase since the new president took power. {name} does not participate in the public protests that have started to become more commonplace recently, but xey does spend a lot of time talking on social media about how horrible the government has become.

## Collaboration

Last year xey heard about a secure and anonymous chat application for activists. When xey went to the website xey noticed that it was using xyr database on the backend. {name} could tell by the code that they did not have much experience working with the database and decided xey had to contribute.

## Challenges

* There are no formal laws against contributing to security tools in xyr country. But, the government has made public statements that those tools are made and used for terrorism. All the public cases where citizens were tried for terrorism related activities, that {name} knows about, led them to life sentences or those individuals disappearing from prison. {name} was very cautious when it came to trying to contribute to the secure chat application.

* {name} decided to create a new online handle to contribute to this project. Xyr "handles" lack of an online history made xyr initial interactions with the projects members difficult. When {name} asked if the tool could protect activists from government surveillance on their IRC the developers would not provide answers to xyr questions, They were concerned that {name} was an "intelligence agency plant" from their own government who was running a sting operation against them.

* {name} decided that xey would contribute to the project to gain their trust. Xey went over their database code and made a series of changes to increase its speed. When xey submitted the fixes they were rejected because the developer team did not have the time to review such as extensive amount of changes. They joked on IRC that this is exactly the kind of code contribution where backdoors are hidden. {name} was disheartened, since xyr contributions, while changing many lines of code, were the kind of code contribution xey would be happy to accept in the codebase xey manages. It took a series of of small and heavily documented contributions for the projects team to start to trust {name} to contribute more code. Xey now makes occasional contributions to the code to fix issues that xey and xyr friends encounter.
