---
title: "{full name} - The Circumvention Supplier"
...


## Background

{name} is a 28 year old developer who makes a living selling in-app advertising and subscriptions in a few different Virtual Private Network (VPN) apps xey has developed.

The country that {name} lives in has widespread, and pervasive, internet censorship. Nearly every citizen uses some form of circumvention app so that they can access social media sites. The government, knowing this, frequently attempts to block circumvention tools that it identifies. As the government prevents one app from working citizens respond by changing to other circumvention apps.

{name} releases xyr apps in both the Google Play store and in a few locally popular App Stores. A majority of xyr new customers get their app when xey gives it to them, or when it is sent to them by one of xer other customers when they are looking for a new circumvention tool. Xyr customer base ebbs and flows depending upon whether or not xyr app is working when one of xyr competitors apps gets blocked by recent changes in censorship.

## Motivations

{name} likes the feeling of being relied on to help those around xem. {name} codes circumvention apps because xey likes the challenge. Xey finds network code interesting and likes to spend an evening puzzling over how to get around the latest changes in the government firewalls. There are few greater joys for {name} than being able to announce that xey is the first app that is updated to get around the latest blocks.

## Challenges

* Even though circumvention tools are illegal xey does not think that xey is doing anything wrong. There is extensive use of censorship circumvention software and {name} has never heard of anyone being targeted because they were using circumvention software. {name}’s friends have told xem that xey will probably only be targeted if the government starts a public-facing effort to "crack-down" on circumvention. Even though it is unlikely, {name} guesses that if xey is targeted the punishment would likely be severe because it would be a part of "security theatre" that shows that the government is taking the issue of illegal circumvention seriously. Earlier this year the government made a point of arresting a developer who built a secure chat app because it was used by terrorists.

* {name} keeps getting negative reviews on xyr app in the app store because it does not have the perfect security that western security professionals want. Xey is getting tired of having to respond to the "NSA digital security requirements." {name}’s users care far more about getting access to the internet than they do about protecting their communications from being monitored. Xey is not going to put a lot of time into additional security that a majority of xyr users don’t need, and could slow down the speed of xyr app.
