---
title: "{full name} - The Game Developer"
...


## Background

{name} is a 45 year old developer who builds works on mobile app development for a regional bank. {name} got a job in the banks IT department out of college and got hired by their development team after teaching xemself mobile app development in the evenings. {name} is married and has a five year old son.

{name}’s country has had strict foreign exchange controls in place for a few years now. This makes it nearly impossible for anyone to transfer money in and out of the country. The foreign exchange controls compounded the country's historically low income levels to make matters even worse for citizens.

Like many, current conditions requires that {name} get income from a few different sources. {name} has been developing and selling mobile games in xyr free time. Xey sells them in a local Ahpp store and splits the profits with a local mobile phone retailer who sells app install in their store.

## Motivations

{name} is most motivated by xyr family. Xyr partner and son are the most important things in xyr life. While maintaining the banks app is a boring job {name} considers xemself lucky to have a stable job that allows xem to take care of xyr family.

{name} loves playing and developing mobile games in xyr free time. Xey aspires to make a living selling mobile games. When {name} manager became one of xyr customers they tole xem that xey would be fired if xey released any financial apps that compete with the banks. {name} has no intention of jeopardizing their job, and ability to take care of their family, by building a competing app.

## Challenges

* There are no opportunities to pursue international mobile development freelancing or remote work besides the bank because the foreign exchange controls make it nearly impossible to exchange foreign currency into local currency.

* While {name} has dreams of developing mobile games full time there is no way xey can do it and continue to support xyr family. The app markets are not big enough in xyr local region to make a living of game sames. Even if they could make enough money through app sales, in-app purchases, or advertising in international App stores the foreign exchange controls would prevent xyr from getting access to that money.
{name}’s son was born right before the currency controls were put in place. {name} had considered fleeing the country to get a higher paying job and eventually bring xyr family out with xem. But, once the currency controls were put in place it would have been impossible for xem to send back money to support xyr family while xey was away.

* {name} has occasionally found some of xyr games on a local software piracy websites. Xey was worried that this would wipe out the small amount of extra profit that this was bringing into their house. Luckily, when {name} reached out to the owners of the websites they were happy to remove the app because xey was local. {name} now searches through these sites once or twice a week to try and catch any new uploads and get them taken down.
