---
title: "{full name} - The Human Rights Newcomer"
...

## Background

{name} is a 22 year old web-developer and part-time computer science student who is deeply passionate about Free Software and software development for the social good. {name} uses an online freelancing websites to find new clients to contract with.

There is widespread and systemic abuse and corruption perpetrated by local authorities in the region where {name} lives.  People frequently have to provide bribes in exchange for basic government services and can face ongoing extortion if they are targeted by local authorities.

## Motivations

{name} got into technology because there are limited local opportunities to make money and technology seemed like it would allow xem to make a living without having to leave xyr family to go abroad. As {name} became more politically active xey started to volunteer by setting up websites and blogs for advocacy groups on their campus.

## Collaboration

One of {name}’s previous clients sent xem an email with a posting by an international Human Rights organization looking to hire a local developer. The organization wants a local developer to build and maintain a website to accompany an advocacy project they are running. The website will allow sex workers to crowdsource incidents of abuse and extortion by local police.

{name} was excited about the technical challenge, high pay, and possible positive impact if xey got the project. But, xey was also concerned. {name} had never worked on a project with this large of a public presence and did not know what the repercussions might be for taking part in a project that was so antagonistic towards local police.

## Challenges

* {name} does not know if there will be repercussions for creating this software. {name} does know that xey needs the work. Even with the international freelance work there is only ever enough work for xem to scrape by. If this project was not offering as high pay as it was {name} would never have agreed to take the risk.
* {name} has an even more limited understanding of possible risks to the sex workers than xey has for xemself. For instance, {name} has no idea that the police raided the offices of a different NGO that was working with sex workers last year  and confiscated their files; Or that they used those files to identify and arrest over twenty different individuals. {name} will be creating a database that will be storing information and incident reports by sex workers as the back-end of the crowdsourced data platform. Without guidance there is a distinct possibility that {name} will collect enough information to allow a repeat of this incident on a much wider scale.
* The project was designed with an end date in mind. The international human rights organization knows that they are likely to not receive continued funding and does not plan to support the website after the project ends. They plan to simply leave the platform up so that they can use it in their communications and development materials. {name} is contracted to maintain the platform throughout the project. When the project ends {name} will have to make the hard choice of continuing to maintain this valuable local resource for free so that it is still useful for sex workers or letting it decay, and possibly be compromised, because xey is no longer being paid. This will be a difficult choice for {name} because xey believes that the project can continue to do a lot of good.
