---
title: "{full name} - The Accidentally Essential Technologist"
age: 42
...

## Background

{name} is a 42 year old developer who does everything from IT to website development at an environmental advocacy non-governmental organization (NGO). {name} started working at this NGO about 7 years ago as one of the administrative staff. After fixing the printer one time the staff started to rely more and more on {name} for technical help. {name}’s job transitioned entirely to technology after {name} created a website that allowed users to fill out a form to send emails to their local representative in favor of stricter controls on logging.

{name}’s NGO is actively targeted by the government because of their work. Many of the government officials in xyr country make illicit deals with logging and mining companies to harvest the country's vast natural resources. The expose’s that {name}’s NGO has done over the last 10 years has embarrassed these officials and caused the organization and its more prominent staff members to become targets.

## Motivations

{name} cares deeply about the environment and the work that xyr NGO is doing. Xey has gotten very good at the technical aspects of xyr job and thinks that it makes their work more impactful.

## Collaboration

It is illegal for NGOs in xyr country to take money from international donors to conduct political activities. {name}’s NGO is primarily funded by international donors. The organization is currently being run by its vice-president after the previous CEO was arrested on tax evasion charges. These charges were primarily based upon the various ways that the previous CEO had to launder the source of the NGOs funding to avoid being tried under the country's severe “foreign agent” laws. {name} does not have anything to do with xyr organization's fundraising, but xey has had to travel out of the country to show off their websites to their donors and to attend events with other censored web-developers that their donors fund to talk about methods for circumventing censorship.

## Challenges

* The content of xyr NGOs main website, and the websites of its campaigns, are deemed "harmful" by the government and are actively censored. Xey spends a lot of xyr time trying to circumvent that censorship. This is time consuming and, depending upon how the site is blocked, it can be expensive.

* The "cyber laws" in xyr region allow for a range of extreme punishments for any type of violation. {name} is increasingly worried about xyr role in circumventing the government's censorship. While the original content is not illegal, the censorship circumvention that xey is conducting is illegal under the local cyber laws. Since {name}’s NGO has moved primarily to online campaigns and xey is the only developer {name} is worried that xey might be targeted to stop the organization from being able to do its work.

* {name}’s concerns about being targeted by government officials has made xem wary of being recognized for xyr work. {name} works very hard to not be the focus of public attention for xyr NGO. {name} intentionally left xyr bio and picture off of the staff page of the NGOs website. {name} is pseudo-anonymously a member of a variety of local listservs and forums. Xey uses these to reads up on new ways to get around local censorship and to share the methods that xey uses. Xey uses an “online handle” and never reveals xyr identity when using these sites. {name} is worried that it could be used against him by authorities in the future. Xey does have some very close friends xey met at a local hackerspace. Xey will talk to them about problems xey is facing. But, {name} only ever does it in person because xey does not want to leave a paper trail.

* {name}’s copy of windows and all xyr website development and design software is pirated because xey cannot afford to purchase it legally. Since their NGO started being actively targeted by the government for their work xey has started to worry that this pirated software makes xyr computer insecure. Xey is primarily worried about the security of the private keys and passwords that xey uses to access the different websites sites & development projects for xyr NGO. {name} has looked online for how to protect xemself, but the advice given is always just for her to buy legal copies of the software.
