---
title: "Kåre Wallin - The Open Source Contributor"
...

## Background

Kåre is a 31 year old developer who does database administration for a living, and contributes to open-source software development in both his professional and personal time. Kåre started contributing to open-source software when he found and fixed a bug in the open-source database software he uses at work. Over time, as he continued to find and fix bugs and add features that he needed at work he became a core member of the project. He has also contributed code to a variety of other international software projects that ask for help. Kåre participates in a variety of international technology focused list-servs, IRC chatrooms, and forums in his professional capacity and under his real name.

## Motivations

Kåre has become increasingly worried about the level of corruption in his government. He has also watched suppression of free speech and the media increase since the new president took power. Kåre does not participate in the public protests that have started to become more commonplace recently, but he does spend a lot of time talking on social media about how horrible the government has become.

## Collaboration

Last year he heard about a secure and anonymous chat application for activists. When he went to the website he noticed that it was using his database on the backend. Kåre could tell by the code that they did not have much experience working with the database and decided he had to contribute.

## Challenges

* There are no formal laws against contributing to security tools in his country. But, the government has made public statements that those tools are made and used for terrorism. All the public cases where citizens were tried for terrorism related activities, that Kåre knows about, led them to life sentences or those individuals disappearing from prison. Kåre was very cautious when it came to trying to contribute to the secure chat application.

* Kåre decided to create a new online handle to contribute to this project. His "handles" lack of an online history made his initial interactions with the projects members difficult. When Kåre asked if the tool could protect activists from government surveillance on their IRC the developers would not provide answers to his questions, They were concerned that Kåre was an "intelligence agency plant" from their own government who was running a sting operation against them.

* Kåre decided that he would contribute to the project to gain their trust. He went over their database code and made a series of changes to increase its speed. When he submitted the fixes they were rejected because the developer team did not have the time to review such as extensive amount of changes. They joked on IRC that this is exactly the kind of code contribution where backdoors are hidden. Kåre was disheartened, since his contributions, while changing many lines of code, were the kind of code contribution he would be happy to accept in the codebase he manages. It took a series of of small and heavily documented contributions for the projects team to start to trust Kåre to contribute more code. He now makes occasional contributions to the code to fix issues that he and his friends encounter.
