---
title: "Blodeuwedd Isaacs - The Circumvention Supplier"
...


## Background

Blodeuwedd is a 28 year old developer who makes a living selling in-app advertising and subscriptions in a few different Virtual Private Network (VPN) apps she has developed.

The country that Blodeuwedd lives in has widespread, and pervasive, internet censorship. Nearly every citizen uses some form of circumvention app so that they can access social media sites. The government, knowing this, frequently attempts to block circumvention tools that it identifies. As the government prevents one app from working citizens respond by changing to other circumvention apps.

Blodeuwedd releases her apps in both the Google Play store and in a few locally popular App Stores. A majority of her new customers get their app when she gives it to them, or when it is sent to them by one of xer other customers when they are looking for a new circumvention tool. Her customer base ebbs and flows depending upon whether or not her app is working when one of her competitors apps gets blocked by recent changes in censorship.

## Motivations

Blodeuwedd likes the feeling of being relied on to help those around her. Blodeuwedd codes circumvention apps because she likes the challenge. She finds network code interesting and likes to spend an evening puzzling over how to get around the latest changes in the government firewalls. There are few greater joys for Blodeuwedd than being able to announce that she is the first app that is updated to get around the latest blocks.

## Challenges

* Even though circumvention tools are illegal she does not think that she is doing anything wrong. There is extensive use of censorship circumvention software and Blodeuwedd has never heard of anyone being targeted because they were using circumvention software. Blodeuwedd’s friends have told her that she will probably only be targeted if the government starts a public-facing effort to "crack-down" on circumvention. Even though it is unlikely, Blodeuwedd guesses that if she is targeted the punishment would likely be severe because it would be a part of "security theatre" that shows that the government is taking the issue of illegal circumvention seriously. Earlier this year the government made a point of arresting a developer who built a secure chat app because it was used by terrorists.

* Blodeuwedd keeps getting negative reviews on her app in the app store because it does not have the perfect security that western security professionals want. She is getting tired of having to respond to the "NSA digital security requirements." Blodeuwedd’s users care far more about getting access to the internet than they do about protecting their communications from being monitored. She is not going to put a lot of time into additional security that a majority of her users don’t need, and could slow down the speed of her app.
