---
title: "Aljona Balaban - The Game Developer"
...


## Background

Aljona is a 45 year old developer who builds works on mobile app development for a regional bank. Aljona got a job in the banks IT department out of college and got hired by their development team after teaching herself mobile app development in the evenings. Aljona is married and has a five year old son.

Aljona’s country has had strict foreign exchange controls in place for a few years now. This makes it nearly impossible for anyone to transfer money in and out of the country. The foreign exchange controls compounded the country's historically low income levels to make matters even worse for citizens.

Like many, current conditions requires that Aljona get income from a few different sources. Aljona has been developing and selling mobile games in her free time. She sells them in a local Ahpp store and splits the profits with a local mobile phone retailer who sells app install in their store.

## Motivations

Aljona is most motivated by her family. Her partner and son are the most important things in her life. While maintaining the banks app is a boring job Aljona considers herself lucky to have a stable job that allows her to take care of her family.

Aljona loves playing and developing mobile games in her free time. She aspires to make a living selling mobile games. When Aljona manager became one of her customers they tole her that she would be fired if she released any financial apps that compete with the banks. Aljona has no intention of jeopardizing their job, and ability to take care of their family, by building a competing app.

## Challenges

* There are no opportunities to pursue international mobile development freelancing or remote work besides the bank because the foreign exchange controls make it nearly impossible to exchange foreign currency into local currency.

* While Aljona has dreams of developing mobile games full time there is no way she can do it and continue to support her family. The app markets are not big enough in her local region to make a living of game sames. Even if they could make enough money through app sales, in-app purchases, or advertising in international App stores the foreign exchange controls would prevent her from getting access to that money.
Aljona’s son was born right before the currency controls were put in place. Aljona had considered fleeing the country to get a higher paying job and eventually bring her family out with her. But, once the currency controls were put in place it would have been impossible for her to send back money to support her family while she was away.

* Aljona has occasionally found some of her games on a local software piracy websites. She was worried that this would wipe out the small amount of extra profit that this was bringing into their house. Luckily, when Aljona reached out to the owners of the websites they were happy to remove the app because she was local. Aljona now searches through these sites once or twice a week to try and catch any new uploads and get them taken down.
