---
title: "Lidziya Arkhipienka - The Human Rights Newcomer"
...

## Background

Lidziya is a 22 year old web-developer and part-time computer science student who is deeply passionate about Free Software and software development for the social good. Lidziya uses an online freelancing websites to find new clients to contract with.

There is widespread and systemic abuse and corruption perpetrated by local authorities in the region where Lidziya lives.  People frequently have to provide bribes in exchange for basic government services and can face ongoing extortion if they are targeted by local authorities.

## Motivations

Lidziya got into technology because there are limited local opportunities to make money and technology seemed like it would allow her to make a living without having to leave her family to go abroad. As Lidziya became more politically active she started to volunteer by setting up websites and blogs for advocacy groups on their campus.

## Collaboration

One of Lidziya’s previous clients sent her an email with a posting by an international Human Rights organization looking to hire a local developer. The organization wants a local developer to build and maintain a website to accompany an advocacy project they are running. The website will allow sex workers to crowdsource incidents of abuse and extortion by local police.

Lidziya was excited about the technical challenge, high pay, and possible positive impact if she got the project. But, she was also concerned. Lidziya had never worked on a project with this large of a public presence and did not know what the repercussions might be for taking part in a project that was so antagonistic towards local police.

## Challenges

* Lidziya does not know if there will be repercussions for creating this software. Lidziya does know that she needs the work. Even with the international freelance work there is only ever enough work for her to scrape by. If this project was not offering as high pay as it was Lidziya would never have agreed to take the risk.
* Lidziya has an even more limited understanding of possible risks to the sex workers than she has for herself. For instance, Lidziya has no idea that the police raided the offices of a different NGO that was working with sex workers last year  and confiscated their files; Or that they used those files to identify and arrest over twenty different individuals. Lidziya will be creating a database that will be storing information and incident reports by sex workers as the back-end of the crowdsourced data platform. Without guidance there is a distinct possibility that Lidziya will collect enough information to allow a repeat of this incident on a much wider scale.
* The project was designed with an end date in mind. The international human rights organization knows that they are likely to not receive continued funding and does not plan to support the website after the project ends. They plan to simply leave the platform up so that they can use it in their communications and development materials. Lidziya is contracted to maintain the platform throughout the project. When the project ends Lidziya will have to make the hard choice of continuing to maintain this valuable local resource for free so that it is still useful for sex workers or letting it decay, and possibly be compromised, because she is no longer being paid. This will be a difficult choice for Lidziya because she believes that the project can continue to do a lot of good.
