---
title: "Stanislav Łoziński - The Entrepreneur"
...

## Background

Stanislav is a 48 year old developer who runs a cloud based log management service for IT professionals. He used to worked in IT for a multinational company. After a few years he and decided to take the system he had built to centralize log management for that company and start selling it as a service. He now runs his own company alongside her partner who focuses on sales.

A year ago a series of technology sovereignty laws were implemented in his country. These laws require businesses to use in-country servers to store and process data about their citizens. As one of the few log-management services that was able to quickly find and start using in-country servers this led to a spike in his business.  This increase in business allowed Stanislav to hire an employee whose job has mostly been taken up with managing challenges related to the in-country hosting.

## Motivations

Stanislav’s primary goal is to make a decent living and to be his own boss. Stanislav likes that his business partner deals with the clients so he can focus on making their service better.

## Challenges

* The recent technological sovereignty laws require that Stanislav use local services for hosting and processing their citizens data. There is a local oligopoly of a few hosting providers. Since there are only a few companies who dominate the market they are have no reason to improve the quality of their services and in their security. Because of this, they are severely lacking in both.
  * Log management requires massive consumption and processing of massive amounts of business data. Unlike the international hosting providers that Stanislav was using before the laws the local hosting providers have a variety of unstated limitations on their machines. Stanislav’s continues to have situations where the servers start dropping client data when a previously unknown limit on the disk size or bandwidth of one of the local hosting providers is reached. This has become such a problem that there is now a collaboratively maintained spreadsheet floating around the local tech scene which lists the “real capabilities” of different local hosting providers.
  * Last year one of the hosting providers sent out a plain text email to all of their clients that contained that client's username and passwords. This caused an outcry among local developers because not hashing users passwords is an indicator that the hosting companies are not putting even basic security in place. The company released a statement that they were using “military grade crypto” for their login portal and that they would fix the problem. Stanislav is not convinced that they have, but has few options but to continue to use the service since he needs it as a redundancy for when the other hosting providers services fail.
* The lack of technology related consumer protection laws mean that Stanislav has little recourse when these things occur. His business partner talked to a local lawyer who said that they didn’t think that they could get much in a lawsuit because the terms of service eschew nearly all liability and there is no precedence in the local courts.
* Stanislav has been losing local customers because hosting issues keep causing them to drop customer logs. Stanislav’s business partner is furious and has been pressuring him to do something to stop this from happening. Stanislav met up with other local developers to talk about how they provide services on the inconsistent local hosting providers. One of these developers suggested some methods for "working around the law" by strategically using a combination of international and local cloud services to provide decent services without raising suspicion of local authorities. They suggested setting up a local fallback proxy server that will send data from local servers to servers outside of the country when their hosting fails. This way the clients would still only see a local address and they could move the data back later when they addressed the problem. Even though would be a temporary measure, Stanislav is worried about the legality of this. Their lawyer thinks that the consequences would be low since they are just handling logs, but does not recommend that they move forward since it is technically illegal.
