---
title: "Sean MacGowan - The Accidentally Essential Technologist"
age: 42
...

## Background

Sean is a 42 year old developer who does everything from IT to website development at an environmental advocacy non-governmental organization (NGO). Sean started working at this NGO about 7 years ago as one of the administrative staff. After fixing the printer one time the staff started to rely more and more on Sean for technical help. Sean’s job transitioned entirely to technology after Sean created a website that allowed users to fill out a form to send emails to their local representative in favor of stricter controls on logging.

Sean’s NGO is actively targeted by the government because of their work. Many of the government officials in his country make illicit deals with logging and mining companies to harvest the country's vast natural resources. The expose’s that Sean’s NGO has done over the last 10 years has embarrassed these officials and caused the organization and its more prominent staff members to become targets.

## Motivations

Sean cares deeply about the environment and the work that his NGO is doing. He has gotten very good at the technical aspects of his job and thinks that it makes their work more impactful.

## Collaboration

It is illegal for NGOs in his country to take money from international donors to conduct political activities. Sean’s NGO is primarily funded by international donors. The organization is currently being run by its vice-president after the previous CEO was arrested on tax evasion charges. These charges were primarily based upon the various ways that the previous CEO had to launder the source of the NGOs funding to avoid being tried under the country's severe “foreign agent” laws. Sean does not have anything to do with his organization's fundraising, but he has had to travel out of the country to show off their websites to their donors and to attend events with other censored web-developers that their donors fund to talk about methods for circumventing censorship.

## Challenges

* The content of his NGOs main website, and the websites of its campaigns, are deemed "harmful" by the government and are actively censored. He spends a lot of his time trying to circumvent that censorship. This is time consuming and, depending upon how the site is blocked, it can be expensive.

* The "cyber laws" in his region allow for a range of extreme punishments for any type of violation. Sean is increasingly worried about his role in circumventing the government's censorship. While the original content is not illegal, the censorship circumvention that he is conducting is illegal under the local cyber laws. Since Sean’s NGO has moved primarily to online campaigns and he is the only developer Sean is worried that he might be targeted to stop the organization from being able to do its work.

* Sean’s concerns about being targeted by government officials has made him wary of being recognized for his work. Sean works very hard to not be the focus of public attention for his NGO. Sean intentionally left his bio and picture off of the staff page of the NGOs website. Sean is pseudo-anonymously a member of a variety of local listservs and forums. He uses these to reads up on new ways to get around local censorship and to share the methods that he uses. He uses an “online handle” and never reveals his identity when using these sites. Sean is worried that it could be used against him by authorities in the future. He does have some very close friends he met at a local hackerspace. He will talk to them about problems he is facing. But, Sean only ever does it in person because he does not want to leave a paper trail.

* Sean’s copy of windows and all his website development and design software is pirated because he cannot afford to purchase it legally. Since their NGO started being actively targeted by the government for their work he has started to worry that this pirated software makes his computer insecure. He is primarily worried about the security of the private keys and passwords that he uses to access the different websites sites & development projects for his NGO. Sean has looked online for how to protect himself, but the advice given is always just for her to buy legal copies of the software.
